One calculation for which I don't posses the knowledge is a calculation for momentum derived from advantage in a circular movement. I have performed numerous experiments and test, taken measurements and shown consistency in my results but there has to be a formula that expresses the result accurately. This is a very important number.  Let me describe.
 
Picture a bicycle wheel with 8 spokes space equal distant radiating from the center axis. One the left side of this wheel are 4 weights, always on the ascending side. The cumulative mechanical advantage calculation for those weights always remain the same throughout rotation. Let's say that number totals 10 as derived from specific increments and distance from the main axis. These weights never move other than during rotation. They are in fixed positions on the wheel. On the descending side of the wheel there is one weight portioned at a distance of 20 increments from the main axis. This calculates at twice the advantage need to favor movement. So, the wheel will move by rotating clockwise. The speed with which the wheel move is determined by the distance the weight on the descending side is from the main axis.Now, let say that weight moves a specific number of degrees vehicle the weights on the ascending side are still on the ascending side. None ever pass onto the descending side during the descending weight's fall. If you remove the descending weight immediately the wheel stop rotating and weights on the ascending side take over and cause the wheel to move in the opposite direction. That's all very obvious. The question is as follows:
 
> How much does the wheel accelerate relative to the distance of the weight on descent?
 
I would guess that the rate of acceleration has to be proportionate to that distance. There must be a formula for this.
 
> Relative to the rate of acceleration, how many additional degree does the wheel rotate if that weight is removed?
 
Don, this is very important. When we meet you'll understand why. My observations have shown that if the wheel is experiencing a small advantage on descent or around 10% it accelerates slowly and there's a residual movement due to momentum of about 4 degrees when the advantage is removed. That 4 degrees can be converted in inches depending on the distance from the axis.


